## 16 React Native under the Hood
- Now, React only works to manage the components tree. This approach encapsulates any rendering APIs and hides a lot of platform-specific methods from us. We can concentrate solely on developing interfaces and cease speculating about how they would be rendered. That’s why React is frequently claimed as a renderer-agnostic library. Also, for web apps, we use **ReactDOM**, which forms elements and applies them right to the browser DOM. For mobile apps, **React Native** renders our interface directly on the mobile screen.
-  React Native implements this part in native code for each 
platform: Java for Android and Objective-C for iOS. The **Native** layer is mainly composed of Native modules that communicate with the Android or iOS SDK and are supposed to provide native functionality for our apps, using a unified API.
- As previously mentioned, each React Native layer implements a unique API for every native and UI feature in an application. The communication between layers is accomplished through the bridge. The module is written in C ++ and is based on an asynchronous queue. When the bridge receives data from one of the parties, it serializes it, converts it to a JSON string, and passes it through the queue. After arriving at its destination, the data is deserialized.
- UI component libraries
	- **NativeBase**: This is a component library that enables developers to build universal design systems. It is built on top of React Native, allowing you to develop apps for Android, iOS, and the web.
	- **React Native Element**: This provides an all-in-one UI kit for creating apps in React Native.
	- **UI Kitten**: This is a React Native implementation of the Eva Design System. The framework contains a set of general-purpose UI components styled in a similar way.
	- **React-native-paper**: This is a collection of customizable and production-ready components for React Native, following Google’s Material Design guidelines.
	- **Tamagui**: This UI kit provides components that can run on mobiles and the web.
- Exploring React Native components and APIs
	- **View**: The main brick of any app. This is the equivalent of `<div>`, and on mobiles, it is represented as UIView or android.view. Any `<View/>` component can nest inside another `<View/> `component and can have zero or many children of any type.
	- **Text**: This is a React component for displaying text. As with View, `<Text/>` supports nesting, styling, and touch handling.
	- **Image**: This displays images from a variety of sources, such as network images, static resources, temporary local images, and images from the camera roll.
	- **TextInput**: This allows users to input text using a keyboard. Props enable a variety of features that can be configured, including auto-correction, auto-capitalization, placeholder text, and different keyboard types, such as a numeric keypad.
	- **ScrollView**: This component is a generic container for scrolling multiple views and components. There can be both vertical and horizontal scrolling (by adjusting the horizontal property) for the scrollable items. If you need to render a huge or limitless list of items, you should use FlatList. This supports a set of special props such as Pull to Refresh and Scroll loading (lazy-loading). If your list needs to be divided into sections, then there is also a special component for this: SectionList.
	- **Button**: React Native has advanced components that can be used to create custom buttons and other touchable components, such as TouchableHighlight, TouchableOpacity, and TouchableWithoutFeedback.
	- **Pressable**: This gives more precise touch control with React Native version 0.63. Basically, it is a wrapper for detecting touch. It is a well-defined component that can be used instead of touchable components such as TouchableOpacity and Button.
	- **Switch**: This component resembles a checkbox; however, it is presented in the form of a switch, which we are familiar with on mobile devices.